---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Understanding of Open Source"
---


When I hear the term "open source", words like "free", "cooperation", and "shared" come into my mind. I see "open source" as an idea that thrives on people and in turn benefit people. The advantage of "open source" compared to "closed source" is that it allows a project to be developed by anyone and hence makes its development more efficient. It also makes the project versatile and adaptable for it can be edited by people into distinct versions to suit their needs. A potential problem with "open source" is that due to the nature of being developed by many people online, the quality of a project can be below expectation. The organization and communication between strangers are worse than members in a company's team in most cases. Another problem is that some projects have the potential to be used to achieve ill purposes. If such projects are made open-source, it is hard to restrict people to misuse it since it is unrealistic to define the boundary between "good" and "bad" purposes. I decide to register for this class about open source software development because I want to gain more knowledge about the meaning of "open source" and its impact. Before, I only saw "open source" as free software developed by random people. However, there are much more to this term and I look forward to dig deeper into it. I also want to improve my programming skills through contributing to such projects.

Four open source projects that I have used are: Linux, Eclipse, JQuery, and Wikipedia. Linux is a great example of open-source. I find it the most handy operating system for developers. People can easily configure it since the source-code is public. I have done most of my work for internship on Linux and it is widely used by many companies. Eclipse is a great open source IDE, which is also the first IDE I have ever used. My first project is done in C++ through Eclipse! JQuery is an open source Javascript library. When I was developing web projects, it was very helpful since it simplified many things and makes coding much easier than vanilla Javascript. Wikipedia is definetely the open-source project that has the biggest influence on me. It is open source in that its articles can be edited by everyone, which makes their information constantly up-to-date since a vast amount of people are updating it. It has offered me great help every time I want to search and learn something.
